---
layout: post
title: Week 9 - First Couple of Contributions 
---

This past week was the first week that we started contributing to our final projects. It also is the second week of online classes. The first week of online classes was pretty rough since it was such a different environment. I was so used to always going to the library to study since I know that if I stay at home I would be way too distracted all the time. Now, my room is both the classroom, library, and sleeping area so sometimes its hard to differentiate them. Especially differentiating sleeping time with studying time. I found myself constantly tired and wanting to crawl back into bed and not getting out. However, with the second week I am a lot more used to this situation and my body is less tired than before. I don't mind doing online classes anymore, but the biggest drawback is having the distraction of my parents doing stuff around the apartment. Other than that, life with online classes is getting easier. Okay, lets get into the contributions now. 

My group as a whole is in a very good spot for contributions. So far we made contributions that are design improvements to the website, porting over examples from their old website to the new one, and translating docs into Chinese. The community has been very responsive and open to even the smallest contribution. Additionally, we have been contributing to two repositories, the regular [p5.js](https://github.com/processing/p5.js) repo and the [p5.js-website](https://github.com/processing/p5.js-website) repo. So right now I think that our contributions are going great. But I have been struggling with finding contributions of my own. 

So I spent a lot of time looking at inline documentation and potentially contributing to that. There were some examples that required inline documentation so I thought I could help with those. But the problem is that some of these examples have little to no inline documentation so it is hard to get started on it since I do not really have a good idea of how it is supposed to work. So I decided to turn to porting over examples from their old website to the new one. I think that I found a good example to port over, its relatively easy and seems to be useful, but I have yet to get a response on the issue I raised for it. Hopefully its not because I tarnished my reputation on this repository (since I might have posted a careless question before) haha. I think that if they don't respond to that issue by the start of next week, I will either follow up or try to find another issue to work on. 

## Conclusion

So overall I think that as a team we are doing really well with contributions and have a good variety of contributions. However, I hope that next week I will amp up contributions of my own so that I am not leeching off of their work. 
