---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - The Scale of Open Source
---

This week was pretty jampacked with different types of open source projects and ways to contribute to these projects. To begin with, we had to evaluate several huge open source projects. Next, we had a guest speaker come in from Bloomberg to talk about how the company uses open source projects to do their job as well as how they contribute to open source projects to give back to the community. Finally, I'm going to talk about some very small contributions to open source projects that I made myself :) 

## Evaluating Open Source Projects

Alright, let's start with the task of evaluating open source projects. While browsing the website and github of some suggested open source projects, I was very intimidated with the large scale of the communities. There were two projects that I was particularly interested in: [GNOME Clock](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Clocks) and [Godot](https://godotengine.org/). 

GNOME Clock was interesting to me because of its simplicity. It doesn't seem to have as large of a code base as some of the other projects, the idea seems simple enough to not have a steep learning curve to understand what is going on, and there is a clear way of communicating through the IRC Channel. However, the main problem is that I have never used GNOME before and the languages used in this project like Vala. It seems difficult to set up the development environment because since I have never used GNOME before, I would have to install it and get familiar with it before I can even start looking at what I can contribute. What I learned from GNOME Clock is that open source projects don't have to be very complex and can be as simple as making a clock app. However, I would want to make sure I am familiar with the platform that the open source project is improving first instead of just purely the idea. 

Additionally, I was interested in Godot because I love playing videogames and Godot is an application used to make videogames. I found the website very useful in finding lots of information about the open source project, in particular the documentation on ways to contribute. There was also another repository separate from the main repo (containing the application's code) that contains a bunch of demos. This helped me learn that I could possibly contribute to open source projects by becoming familiar with using the application and creating examples and tutorials for others to learn. Contributing to the code base of Godot seems challenging since I have not worked on anything like it in the past, but Godot would definitely be an open source project where I would try to contribute to the examples or the documentation. 

The takeaway I got from evaluating these open source projects was to definitely have experience with the programming the projects use if I want to make a contribution to the code, try to avoid large and established communities since it will be harder to make a meaningful contribution and focus on communities that have a lot of documentation and instructions on how to contribute. After this activity, I think I most likely will want to focus on contributing through documentation or providing examples, however I do not feel ready to select a project to contribute to because there seems to be a lot of criteria to meet in order to find a project that is the right fit for you. 


