---
layout: post
title: Week 13 - Preparing for the final presentation
---

Nothing too major happened this week. Since my group is the first group scheduled to present (we are presenting this Monday), we have been constructing our slides and finalizing our contributions. It's crazy how we are nearing the end of the semester. The month of March felt like the longest month of my life because of the coronavirus, but April felt like it flew by so quickly. 

Within this past month, I definitely became more extroverted in terms of open source contributions. I have become a lot more comfortable with using the procedure of forking, creating a branch, and creating a pull request in order to contribute to big open source projects. Additionally I have become more comfortable with posting issues. I used to think that issues had to be some sort of intense procedure of identifying a huge problem with the code base, but now I feel pretty comfortable with creating an issue for something as small as a typo in the documentation (it definitely helps when you are working with a community that accepts all kinds of contributions). 

One problem that I noticed however, is that some of the issues that I post are never addressed. I would post an issue so that I can get approval from the community's main contributors to work on the fix, but sometimes they never respond to the post. This leaves me wondering if I should even pursue working on issue, since they never really gave me approval to submit a pull request regarding the issue yet. In these situations, I see that some people simply just submit a pull request regardless if they get a response or not, but I'm pretty reserved with doing this because I don't want to put a lot of work in submitted a pull request and then it gets declined because the moderators didn't want it in the first place. I wonder if I should continue being reserved like this, or just make the pull request and see what happens, since the worst case scenario is just that my pull request doesn't get accepted (I guess it could also give me a bad reputation in the community). 

In terms of other things that have been happening this week, I have been mostly treating it as a lazy week. This semester I only have two finals since my two other classes are project based (including this one). I like this since it definitely relieves a lot of stress during finals week and I can sort of space out a lot of my work so that I am not cramming like I would with a final test. So this week has sort of acted like a rest and recovery week before the hustle and bustle of finals week comes up. 

By next week's post, my group and I would have finished our final presentation, so I will be able to update you guys with how that goes! Thank you for reading!
